Dave Barry's 2021 Year in Review
Vaccines, variants and supply chain woes: A look back at the past 12 months

By Dave Barry 
DECEMBER 26, 2021
   
Is there anything positive we can say about 2021?

Yes. We can say that it was marginally better than 2020.

Granted, this is not high praise. It's like saying that somebody is marginally nicer than Hitler. But it's something.

What was better about 2021? For one thing, people finally emerged from their isolated pandemic cocoons and started connecting with others. Granted, the vast majority of the people who connected with us this year wanted to discuss our car's extended warranty. But still.

Another improvement was that most stores got rid of those one-way anti-covid arrows on the floor. Remember those, from 2020? You'd be halfway down a supermarket aisle, and you'd realize that you'd gone past the Cheez-Its but you couldn't turn around and go back because you'd be going AGAINST THE ARROWS, which meant YOU WOULD GET COVID.


Ha ha! Was that stupid, or what? Fortunately in 2021, we followed the Science, which decided that the coronavirus does not observe floor arrows. On the other hand, the Science could not make up its mind about masks, especially in restaurants. Should everybody in the restaurant wear them? Should only the staff wear them? Should people who are standing up wear them, but not people who are sitting down, which would seem to suggest that the virus can also enter our bodies via our butts? We still don't know, and we can't wait to find out what the Science will come up with for us next.

Anyway, our point is not that 2021 was massively better than 2020. Our point is that at least it was different. A variant, so to speak. And like any year, it had both highs and lows.

No, we take that back. It was pretty much all lows, as we will see when we review the key events of 2021, starting in ...

January
... which dawns with all eyes on Washington, D.C., where President Donald Trump, as chief executive of the most powerful nation on Earth, is trying to get somebody to answer the intercom. This is difficult because pretty much everybody in his administration except Melania has bailed. The only people still in contact with Trump are the members of his inner circle of trusted wack jobs, who are counseling the president in his ongoing effort to prove that the presidential election was RIGGED in a massive conspiracy that - although too complex and sophisticated for the so-called "courts of law" to understand - is transparently obvious to the My Pillow guy.

On Jan. 6, Congress meets to certify the votes of the so-called "electoral college." Meanwhile Trump gives a lengthy speech to a Stop the Steal rally, declaring repeatedly that the election was a fraud and somebody needs to do something about it. He concludes by telling the fired-up crowd to "walk down Pennsylvania Avenue and get violent."

Okay, he didn't say those last words out loud. But soon afterward the Capitol is invaded by thousands of people who are fiercely loyal to Trump and determined to ensure that his enduring legacy, as president, will be that he inspired a tragic, futile and utterly stupid riot at the U.S. Capitol.

Okay, that wasn't their goal. But it is what they accomplished.

The Capitol riot is widely condemned, with much of the blame falling on Trump. He swiftly receives the harshest punishment allowed under the Constitution: He is permanently banned from Twitter, the first sitting president to suffer this fate since Chester A. Arthur. Also he is impeached again. Two weeks later Trump leaves the White House for good, with only quick action by the Secret Service preventing him from being hit by the screen door on his way out.

Trump swiftly receives the harshest punishment allowed under the Constitution: He is permanently banned from Twitter. Also he is impeached again.

The spotlight now shifts to incoming president Joe Biden, who takes the oath of office in front of a festive throng of 25,000 National Guard troops. The national healing begins quickly as Americans, exhausted from years of division and strife, join together in exchanging memes of Bernie Sanders attending the inauguration wearing distinctive mittens and the facial expression of a man having his prostate examined by a hostile sea urchin.

Meanwhile on the pandemic front, there is good news and bad news. The good news is: Vaccines are increasingly becoming available to senior citizens, and they can make vaccination appointments on the Internet. The bad news is: Many of these seniors are still trying to communicate with their computers by shouting into the mouse.

In financial news, the big story is the spectacular rise in the stock price of GameStop, a video game retail chain that has not sold an actual video game since the Clinton administration. The skyrocketing stock price is the result of small investors taking advantage of a short squeeze margin-call algorithm to leverage the arbitrage and thus create a classic liquidity debenture. In other words, we have no earthly idea what is going on with GameStop, but it seems to be interfering with the efforts of wealthy hedge-fund people to get even wealthier, so we are all for it.

Speaking of business, in ...

February
... with many difficult challenges facing the nation, Congress finally sets aside the bitter bipartisan wrangling of 2020 and moves forward to the pressing business of holding another impeachment trial for Donald Trump. In a scathing indictment of his involvement in the Capitol riot, the House Democratic impeachment managers charge that Trump, by feeding the Jan. 6 Stop the Steal rally "wild falsehoods" about the election, "is practically and morally responsible for provoking the events of the day."

No, wait, those aren't the scathing words of the House managers: Those are the scathing words of Republican Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell! Who then votes to ... acquit! McConnell is part of a broad ideological coalition consisting of 43 Republican and zero Democratic senators, which means Trump joins the distinguished list of U.S. presidents, including Abraham Lincoln, who technically were not convicted of anything. And thus our political and media classes, after literally years of obsessing about Donald Trump, are finally free to continue obsessing about Donald Trump for the foreseeable future.

A massive ice storm blasts much of the nation, taking an especially brutal toll on Texas, where record-setting cold temperatures knock out power to large areas and wreak devastating havoc upon millions of cells in the brain of Sen. Ted Cruz, who, despite being (Just ask him!) the smartest person on the planet, decides this would be a good time to dash off to Cancún. Meanwhile the management of the Texas power grid is harshly criticized by members of Congress who could not personally reset a home circuit breaker without the help of at least four consultants and a pollster.

In the month's most positive news, the NASA rover Perseverance, after traveling 293 million miles through space, lands safely on the surface of Mars. Technically it was supposed to land on Venus, but as a NASA spokesperson observes, "a planet is a planet." The rover sends back breathtaking video revealing that Mars has an environment consisting - as scientists have long suspected - of dirt.

In sports, the ageless Tom Brady leads the Tampa Bay Tom Bradys to victory in the Tom Brady Bowl, with the MVP trophy going to Tom Brady, who celebrates with his supermodel wife, Mrs. Tom Brady.

Bite us, Tom Brady.

Speaking of victories, in ...

March
... congressional Democrats pass the Biden administration's covid-19 relief package, which will cost $1.9 trillion, which the United States will pay for by selling baked goods to foreign nations. In a prime-time address after signing the bill, President Biden says there is "a good chance" that Americans will be able to gather together "by July the Fourth." He does not specify which one.

Meanwhile, as millions more Americans are being vaccinated every day, medical experts on cable TV unanimously agree on the following facts:

· The situation is definitely getting better.

· Or not! There are all these "variants."

· If you are vaccinated, you may resume leading a normal life.

· NOT SO FAST, BUCKO.

· At least we can stop wearing these masks pretty soon.

· Or maybe we should keep them on! For years!

· Although nobody knows why, since - to quote the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - "most of you morons are wearing them wrong anyway."

New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, whose leadership during the covid-19 crisis has been (Just ask him!) so excellent that he was able to publish a book about how superbly he handled the crisis way before the crisis was anywhere near over, comes under intensified scrutiny over allegations of sexual harassment and underreporting of nursing-home deaths. Cuomo resists calls for his resignation but puts a temporary hold on development of a "Hamilton"-style musical based on his life (working title: "Cuomo").

International shipping is seriously disrupted when the Suez Canal, which a lot of us forgot about after ninth-grade history class, is blocked by a container ship.

Prince Harry and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, in their ongoing effort to escape the unbearable scrutiny resulting from their association with the British royal family, spend two hours on national TV talking with Oprah Winfrey about the British royal family. Plans are announced for a concert to benefit the beleaguered couple, headlined by Willie Nelson.

On the wokeness front, Dr. Seuss joins the lengthening list of individuals who are deemed to be Problematic, which also includes George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Pepe LePew and Mr. Potato Head. Also people are starting to take a hard look at the Very Hungry Caterpillar, and if you have to ask why YOU ARE PART OF THE PROBLEM.

International shipping is seriously disrupted when the Suez Canal, which a lot of us totally forgot about after ninth-grade history class but apparently is still a thing, is blocked by a massive container ship that became wedged sideways after the pilot attempted to take a shortcut suggested by Waze. After six days of frantic efforts, tugboats are finally able to free the ship, aided by an unusually high tide and what maritime experts describe as "a really big jar of Vaseline."

Meanwhile the situation at the nation's southern border rages out of control. We are referring here to Miami Beach, although things are also not great on the Mexico border. The big debate in Washington is whether to describe the border situation as a "crisis," which is a solid indication of how likely Washington is to actually do anything about it.

But as winter turns to spring, the national mood begins to shift, and in ...

April
... a new spirit of racial harmony spreads across the land, a spirit that is best described by the words "April Fools."

But seriously, the national mood remains racially tense. A major issue is Georgia's new voting law, which critics say targets minorities, and which prompts Major League Baseball to move the All-Star Game out of Atlanta. There is no comparable effort to move the Masters golf tournament, which by long-standing tradition is held in 1958.

Meanwhile in a Minneapolis courtroom: Whew.

There is some welcome news on the covid-19 front as the CDC declares that it is not necessary to wear a face mask "provided that you are fully vaccinated, and you are outdoors, and you are part of a small gathering, and everybody in this gathering has also been fully vaccinated, and all of you periodically, as a precaution, emit little whimpers of terror." The CDC adds that "we, personally, plan to spend the next five to 10 years locked in our bedroom."

President Biden, in his first speech to Congress, promotes his infrastructure plan, which would cost $2.3 trillion, and his American Families Plan, which would cost $1.8 trillion, with both plans to be funded by what the president describes as a "really big carwash."

In other executive-branch news, Major, one of the two official Biden administration German shepherds, is sent away from the White House for what a spokesperson calls "additional training." Since moving into the executive mansion, Major has bitten two people, one of whom was a Secret Service agent, although reportedly not the same one who was bitten by Rudy Giuliani.

In Congress, a group of Democratic legislators introduces a controversial bill that would add four justices to the Supreme Court. This bill is expected to be hotly debated, especially since, under a provision inserted by Sen. Edward Markey (D-Mass.), it would also permit the New England Patriots to have 15 players on the field.

The Census Bureau announces that some states will lose seats in the House of Representatives because of a nationwide population shift toward what demographers categorize as "regions with Waffle Houses."

In other state news - this is a true item - Randy Quaid announces via tweet that he is "seriously considering" running for governor of California against Caitlyn Jenner. We see no need to add a punchline here.

In space news, the NASA Mars rover Perseverance deploys Ingenuity, an $80 million mini-helicopter that becomes the first aircraft to make a flight on another planet, ascending to an altitude of nearly 10 feet, from which vantage point scientists on Earth are able to determine that the Martian environment consists of what a NASA spokesperson describes as "even more dirt than we originally thought."

Speaking of scientific developments, in ...

May
... the CDC further relaxes its covid-19 guidelines in response to new scientific data showing that a lot of people have stopped paying attention to CDC guidelines. At this point these are the known facts about the pandemic in America:

· Many Americans have been vaccinated but continue to act as though they have not.

· Many other Americans have not been vaccinated but act as though they have.

· Many of those who got vaccinated hate Donald Trump, who considers the vaccines to be one of his greatest achievements.

· Many who refuse to get vaccinated love Donald Trump.

What do these facts tell us? They tell us that we, as a nation, are insane. But we knew that.

In a chilling reminder of the U.S. infrastructure's vulnerability to cyberattack, Colonial Pipeline is forced to shut down a major East Coast fuel pipeline after suspected Russian hackers break into the corporation's computer system and obtain naked photos of top executives with a duck.

We're kidding, of course. The duck was fully clothed. In any event, the pipeline is reopened after Colonial pays the hackers a ransom of nearly $5 million, thereby sending a stern warning to any would-be future hackers that this is an excellent way to obtain money.

President Biden proposes a fiscal 2022 federal budget of $6 trillion, to be raised by what the White House describes as "an exciting new partnership with Herbalife." In other administration news, Major the former White House dog escapes from his rehabilitation facility and robs a convenience store.

The big story is the rise in the stock price of GameStop, a chain that has not sold an actual video game since the Clinton administration.

The northeastern United States witnesses a majestic natural phenomenon that takes place just once every 17 years as trillions of Brood X cicadas emerge from the soil, shed their skins and - like countless generations of cicadas before them - are harshly criticized for their lifestyle decisions by millennial and boomer cicadas.

The world heaves a sigh of relief after a huge rocket booster, which had been in an unstable orbit, plummets to Earth without hitting an inhabited area. Many scientists believe that the rocket was launched by China, but the Chinese government insists that it most likely originated in a bat.

In other space news, the Mars rover Perseverance deploys Courage, a $53 million blender that becomes the first appliance to successfully produce a frozen daiquiri on another planet.

In sports, the Kentucky Derby is again tarnished by scandal when drug tests reveal that the apparent winner, Medina Spirit, was carrying, instead of a human jockey, what race officials describe as "a highly modified Ken doll." But the PGA Championship has a happier ending when Phil Mickelson, in a feel-good story that inspires older guys everywhere, loses to Tom Brady.

Speaking of older guys, in ...

June
... President Biden goes to Europe to participate in an important and historic photo opportunity with the other leaders of the Group of 7 economic powers, which are Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States, Google, Facebook and Mattress Giant. In a formal joint statement issued after the meeting, the leaders declare that everybody had, quote, "a nice time." Biden also meets with Queen Elizabeth II, who has met with every U.S. president since we started having them.

Biden then goes to Geneva for a summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin, during which Biden warns Putin that these darned Russian hackers better stop hacking into the U.S. infrastructure, or by golly we are going to call shenanigans. Putin insists that Russia has nothing to do with the hacking or "any future hacking incidents currently in the planning stages." Putin offers to help investigate the problem by means of a special investigation app that he helpfully installs on Biden's phone. The two leaders then engage in a ceremonial exchange of Social Security numbers. Both sides describe the meeting as "fruitful."

In sadder administration news, Champ, the other White House dog, passes away. Major, speaking through his legal team, declares that he has an alibi.

New York City holds a mayoral primary featuring several thousand Democratic candidates and an estimated one Republican. The big issue for voters is the rising crime rate, as exemplified by the discovery that Staten Island is missing. In an effort to make the election more exciting, the city decides to use a new "ranked choice" voting system scientifically designed to eliminate the possibility that anybody will ever know for sure who actually won. The Democratic front-runner is believed to be either (A) former police captain Eric Adams, who is the Brooklyn borough president as well as possibly a resident of New Jersey, or (B) the late Ed Koch.

U.S. intelligence officials release a much-anticipated report on UFOs contradicting speculation that mysterious aerial phenomena observed by military pilots are extraterrestrial spacecraft. "In fact," concludes the report, "it's dragons."

In other space news, the rover Perseverance celebrates its fourth month on Mars by deploying Fortitude, a $279 million rotating multifaceted reflective sphere believed to be the first fully operational disco ball on another planet.

But the news turns grim again in ...

July
... as covid-19, which we thought was almost over - this is like the eighth or ninth time we have thought this - appears to be surging again in certain areas because of the "delta variant," which gets its name from the fact that it is spread primarily by fraternities. The problem is that many Americans have declined to be vaccinated, despite the efforts of pro-vaccine voices to change the minds of the skeptics by informing them that they are stupid idiots, which is usually a persuasive argument. In response to the surge, the CDC issues new guidelines urging Americans to "do the opposite of whatever we said in our previous guidelines, not that anyone is paying attention."

In the month's most upbeat story, Richard Branson and Jeff Bezos (who owns The Washington Post) pioneer a new era in billionaire leisure travel by going up in private suborbital spacecraft. The two flights are radically different: Branson's takes off in New Mexico and returns to Earth in New Mexico; whereas Bezos (who we remind you owns The Washington Post) takes off in Texas and comes down in Texas. Space enthusiasts say these missions will pave the way toward a future in which ordinary people with millions of spare dollars will be able to travel from one part of a state to a completely different part of that state while wearing matching outfits.

In other space news, the Mars Rover Perseverance celebrates Independence Day by deploying Intrepid, a $172 million laser-activated extruded-meat cylinder believed to be the first hot dog successfully prepared on another planet. Unfortunately, because of a software glitch, Intrepid's $37 million Condiment Propulsion Module (CPM) overshoots its target and squirts 27 grams of specially engineered space mustard onto Valiant, the $52 million first-ever extraterrestrial picnic blanket.

In Tokyo, the pandemic-delayed 2020 Olympic Games (motto: "Later, Smaller, Sadder") finally get underway with the majestic Nasal Swab of Nations. This is followed by the ceremonial lighting of the Olympic Torch, which for safety reasons is a small vanilla-scented bath candle that is immediately extinguished to prevent it from attracting crowds. Let the Games begin!

In other sports news, major NCAA rules changes allow college athletes to cash in on name, image and likeness for the first time ever, wink wink. The biggest beneficiary, signing a sponsorship deal estimated to be worth more than $100 million, is the University of Alabama's highly touted incoming freshman quarterback, Tom Brady.

The month ends with the delta-variant surge worsening, bringing back mask mandates and social-distancing requirements as health experts, government officials and the media join together to convey the following clear, consistent and reassuring message to the public:

· You should get vaccinated, because the vaccines will make you safe.

· But remember that even if you get vaccinated, you can still get infected.

· Also you can infect others and kill them.

· So just because you're vaccinated, don't go around thinking you're safe.

· NOBODY IS SAFE, YOU FOOL.

Speaking of confusion, the big story in ...

August
... is the withdrawal of American forces from Afghanistan, a country that, thanks to 20 years of our involvement, has been transformed - at a cost of many lives and more than $2 trillion - from an undemocratic society into an undemocratic society with a whole lot of abandoned American military hardware lying around. Most Americans agree that we have accomplished our mission, which is the same mission that the Russians had in Afghanistan before us, and the British had before them; namely, to get the hell out of Afghanistan.

The Biden administration, noting that the president has more than 140 years of experience reading teleprompter statements about foreign policy, assures everyone that it has a Sound Exit Plan allowing for Every Possible Contingency, and insists that the withdrawal is going well. This assessment is confirmed by observers on the ground, particularly Jen Psaki, with the ground in her case being the White House press briefing room. Observers who are actually in Kabul paint a somewhat darker picture of the withdrawal, more along the lines of what would have happened if the Hindenburg had crashed into the Titanic during a soccer riot.

It is a tragic time for America, particularly our military, but it is also a time when we are reminded that when things go bad, we are a nation whose leaders can be relied upon to step up and not take personal responsibility. The Biden people blame Trump, for naively making a bad deal with the Taliban; the Trump people blame Biden, for botching the exit.

So in the end - this is the beauty of our current political environment - everybody has somebody else to blame, and nobody is responsible. American leadership has come a long way since the days of Dwight Eisenhower, who, on the eve of D-Day, wrote a short, plainly worded letter, to be published if the invasion failed, in which he said that the blame was his alone.

What a loser.

The Milk Crate Challenge briefly takes center stage as the latest fun new way for Internet dimwits to injure themselves.

In more positive news, the Food and Drug Administration grants full approval to the Pfizer coronavirus vaccine, a move that opens the door, at last, for millions of unvaccinated people to come up with a new excuse not to get it.

Meanwhile the delta variant continues to surge, especially in the South. Among the worst-hit states is Florida, where Gov. Ron DeSantis, faced with skyrocketing case numbers, focuses, laserlike, on the root problem: local school boards flagrantly attempting to make decisions about local schools.

In other state news, Andrew Cuomo announces that he is resigning as governor of New York because he is a warm and loving human being who did absolutely nothing wrong.

On the fad front, the Milk Crate Challenge briefly takes center stage as the latest fun new way for Internet dimwits to injure themselves. There is no conclusive proof that all of these "challenge" fads - the Tide Pod Challenge is another example - originated in a laboratory in Wuhan, China, but you have to wonder.

Meanwhile global climate change continues to be a big concern as scientists release disturbing satellite images showing that the Antarctic ice sheet, for the first time in thousands of years, has developed a Dairy Queen.

Speaking of disturbing, in ...

September
... the coronavirus vaccine controversy escalates when distinguished rapper/epidemiologist Nicki Minaj issues a tweet stating that her cousin in Trinidad had a friend who got vaccinated and became impotent and his man fruits swelled up and his fiancee canceled their wedding. We are not making this up. The Minaj tweet instantly becomes international news, receiving more attention than any statement made in the past year by Anthony Fauci. Numerous health authorities dispute Minaj's assertion, including Trinidad Health Minister Terrence Deyalsingh, who states that the nation has had no known vaccine-related cases of masculine balloonage. Nevertheless Minaj stands by her story and posts another tweet, using the hashtag #BallGate (we are still not making this up), stating that she has been invited to the White House to discuss the situation. Questioned about this by reporters, press secretary Jen Psaki says that the White House offered to arrange a phone call between Minaj and a White House doctor, producing forehead slaps from millions of Americans who cannot speak to their own doctors without spending roughly a month on hold. Eventually the story peters out and America moves on, but not before our national average IQ has dropped at least 15 points.

In the ongoing 2020 presidential election, Donald Trump - who insists that there was MASSIVE FRAUD in Arizona and he actually beat Joe Biden - is finally vindicated when a company hired by the Republican-controlled state Senate to review the ballots concludes that ...

Okay, it concludes that Trump did, in fact, lose; in fact he lost by even more votes than originally reported. Trump, reacting to this finding, declares that it proves there was MASSIVE FRAUD in Arizona and he actually beat Joe Biden. And thus the healing begins.

In other state news, voters in California, which operates under the Perpetual Recall system of government, decide that for the time being they will keep Gov. Gavin Newsom, who campaigned on the slogan "The Other Candidates Are Even Worse." (We feel compelled to note here that "Gavin Newsom" is an anagram for "Veganism Now.")

In space news, the Mars rover Perseverance deploys Excelsior, a $141 million robotic leg developed for NASA by Nike, and uses it to successfully kick what appears to be the first-ever field goal on another planet, only to have it nullified by a holding penalty.

The month ends with major drama in Washington, where Democrats are locked in a vicious ideological battle with ... okay, basically with themselves, over how to pass two spending bills, one for infrastructure costing $1 trillion and one for miscellaneous items costing $3.5 trillion, which sounds like a lot of money until you understand that the entire amount will be funded by leprechauns. It's an exciting time to be alive if you're the kind of person who enjoys - and who doesn't? - interminable slogs through an incomprehensible legislative process.

The excitement continues to build in ...

October
... as the Democrats spend the entire month engaged in increasingly frantic efforts to reach some kind of budget agreement with themselves, even going so far as to consider reducing the $3.5 trillion to only $1.75 trillion, which in Washington is viewed as barely enough for gratuities. Meanwhile the Republicans, led by Mitch McConnell, sit around getting pedicures. President Biden, for his part, takes several trips to Delaware. Vice President Harris also engages in important activities.

But the big story is the worsening economy, which is showing a number of disturbing trends:

· Inflation continues to be a pesky problem, with food prices soaring and gasoline approaching $4 per gallon everywhere in the nation except California, where, for environmental reasons, it is $137.50.

· The labor shortage has become so severe that for the first time since it began keeping records, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, which produces a monthly report on the nation's employment situation, does not have enough workers to produce the monthly report.

· U.S. consumers are seeing more and more empty store shelves caused by disruptions in the supply chain from China, which despite being our global archenemy currently manufactures every product consumed by Americans except Zippo lighters. Economists warn that the supply-chain problems threaten to put a damper on the holidays, a time when Americans traditionally gather together in big-box stores to fight over TV sets.

The delta variant gets its name from the fact that it is spread primarily by fraternities.

Speaking of threats: American military and intelligence officials express concern over reports that China has tested a nuclear-capable hypersonic missile, although a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson states that it was "probably a bat."

In other disturbing developments, Facebook suffers a worldwide outage lasting several harrowing hours, during which billions of people are forced to obtain all of their misinformation from Twitter. Later in the month Facebook Chief Execudroid Mark Zuckerberg announces that, to better reflect Facebook's vision for the future, the parent company is changing its name to the Washington Redskins.

In sports the "feel good" story is the New York Yankees, who, for the 12th consecutive year, do not even get to the World Series (neither, incredibly, does Tom Brady). The two teams that do qualify are the Houston Astros, whose players openly carry wads of cash on the field so they can bribe umpires, and the Atlanta Braves, whose home field is in Atlanta, Ga., a location that was morally unacceptable to Major League Baseball in April but is okay now because, to quote an official statement issued by MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred, "shut up."

As the month ends, Biden heads to Rome for a Group of 20 summit with the top leaders of the world's most important economic powers, except for China, Russia, Japan and Mexico, whose top leaders are unable to attend because of previously scheduled dental appointments. Nevertheless the president is able to successfully participate in a series of discussions that are characterized by the White House communications staff as "verbal."

The nonstop presidential action continues not stopping in ...

November
... as President Biden heads to Glasgow, a city located in Scotland or possibly Wales, to participate in COP26, a 190-nation conference on climate change attended by more than 30,000 political leaders, diplomats, bureaucrats, experts, spokespersons, observers, aides, minions, private-jet pilots and of course Leonardo DiCaprio. After an incalculable number of catered meals and lengthy impassioned speeches making the points that (1) the climate crisis is real, (2) this is an emergency, (3) the time for action is NOW, (4) we cannot afford to wait ONE DAY longer, and (5) WE ARE NOT KIDDING AROUND THIS IS SERIOUS DAMMIT, the participating nations hammer out a historic agreement declaring, in no uncertain terms, that they will definitely, no excuses this time, gather next year for another conference, which, in a clear indication of progress, will be named "COP27." Take that, climate change!

But the big November excitement takes place in Washington, where Congress finally passes the $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill, intended to repair the nation's crumbling roads and bridges through the acquisition and deployment of 48 billion rolls of duct tape. This is the first big legislative win for Biden, who travels to New Hampshire to promote the new law by making a speech on a bridge constructed in 1939, which immediately thereafter collapses.

During this time Vice President Harris also is very involved in various things that she is doing.

In a stunning political upset, Terry McAuliffe, the heavily favored Democratic candidate for governor of Virginia, is defeated by Republican Glenn Youngkin, a political novice. Exit polls show that the deciding issue, especially among independent voters, was the fact that the letters in "Glenn Youngkin" can be rearranged to spell "Nun Lying On Keg," whereas "Terry McAuliffe" gives you "A Firefly Rectum."

As the busy holiday travel season gets underway, millions of travelers flock to the nation's major airports. This comes as a big shock to some of the nation's major airlines, which apparently had not been informed that the holidays can be a busy travel time. As one distraught airline executive put it: "Suddenly all these people just showed up with tickets they apparently purchased from us. How in God's name is anybody supposed to plan for THAT?"

In other holiday news, Joe Biden, carrying on a fun presidential tradition, ceremonially "pardons" two Thanksgiving turkeys, Peanut Butter and Jelly, who are sent off to retire on an Indiana farm, where they are eaten by Major the former White House dog. On Thanksgiving Day itself, families all across America pause to observe Thanksgiving just as the Pilgrims did, by buying things on the Internet.

On the economic front, the Biden administration, seeking to counteract the steep rise in gasoline prices, orders the Department of Energy to release 50 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Within minutes a dozen towns in East Texas are flattened by an oil wave estimated to be 200 feet high. "Apparently," states a red-faced department spokesperson, "you're supposed to release the oil into a pipeline."

Meanwhile, in response to a global shortage of maple syrup, the Federation of Quebec Maple Syrup Producers announces that it is releasing 50 million pounds of syrup from its strategic reserve. You probably think we are making this item up, but we are not.

As the month draws to a close, anxiety mounts worldwide over yet another coronavirus variant, called "omicron," which we are pretty sure is also the name of one of the lesser villains in "Avengers: Endgame." Everyone - government officials, medical authorities and the media - assures the public that while the new variant is a cause for concern, there is no reason to panic because OHMIGOD THEY'RE BANNING TRAVEL FROM AFRICA THE STOCK MARKET IS CRASHING THE VACCINES MIGHT NOT WORK WE ARE ALL GOING TO DIE POSSIBLY AS SOON AS THE MONTH OF ...

December
?... which begins with the nations of the world united in a heartwarming humanitarian effort to make sure that omicron stays in the other nations of the world. The U.S. government considers tough new restrictions on international travelers, including requiring their planes to circle the airport for seven days before landing, but eventually settles on a compromise under which the planes will be allowed to land, but the passengers must remain in the airport eating prepackaged kiosk sandwiches until, in the words of a CDC spokesperson, "all of their germs are dead."

?President Biden, in a reassuring address to the nation on his strategy for dealing with a potential winter coronavirus surge, urges Americans to "do what it says on the teleprompter."

?Meanwhile the media, performing their vital, constitutionally protected function of terrifying the public, run story after story documenting the relentless advance of omicron, with headlines like "First Omicron Case Reported in Japan," "Omicron Now Reported in California," "Omicron Heading Your Way," "OMICRON IS IN YOUR ATTIC RIGHT NOW," etc.

?On the legislative front, congressional leaders, facing what we are required, by the rules of professional journalism, to describe as a looming deadline, work feverishly to prevent an unprecedented partial shutdown of the federal government for the 27th or 28th time. Finally they hammer out a deal under which the government will be temporarily funded via a loan from an individual named Vinny, to be repaid in cash by Feb. 18 or else Vinny takes legal possession of the nuclear aircraft carrier of his choice.

?No, that would be insane. Although not as insane as the way we actually fund the federal government.

On Thanksgiving Day, families pause to observe Thanksgiving just as the Pilgrims did, by buying things on the Internet.
?In other economic news, investors are alarmed when the Federal Reserve Board issues a formal statement declaring that it has no earthly idea what a "bitcoin" is, and it's pretty sure nobody else does either.

?In holiday-season news, travel in the Midwest is snarled when the U.S. Department of Agriculture, seeking to alleviate a shortage of Christmas hams, releases 17 million head of pig from the Strategic Pork Reserve, blocking every major road into and out of Iowa and causing the region to smell, in the words of Iowa Gov. Kim Reynolds, "even worse than usual."

?Finally, mercifully, the troubled year nears its conclusion. As the nation prepares to celebrate New Year's Eve, the mood is subdued and thoughtful. People are still getting drunk and throwing up, but they're doing this in a subdued and thoughtful manner. Because nobody knows what 2022 will bring. Will it suck as much as this year? Will it suck more? Or will it suck a LOT more? These appear to be our choices.

?Perhaps, as we face the new year, we should look beyond the confines of our troubled planet for reasons to hope. Perhaps we can turn for inspiration to the plucky NASA rover Perseverance, which, as 2021 draws to a close, sends a message back to Earth across millions of miles of space. It's a simple message, but one that resonates deeply with all of humanity: Perseverance has detected omicron on Mars.

?Okay, so that's not very hopeful. But don't let it stop you from ringing in 2022 on a festive note. For one night, forget about the bad things. Be festive, party hard and, in the words of Anthony Fauci, "remove your mask before you throw up."

?Happy new year.

Dave Barry is a Pulitzer Prize-winning humor columnist and author.

Sign in to join the conversation
